---
layout: post
title: GenAI Security 101
---

In this blog, we are going to delve into the essentials of GenAI Security. This will be a concise introduction, with subsequent posts focusing on individual elements in detail. Let's start by ensuring the reader has a clear understanding of Generative AI.

### What is Generative AI?

Generative AI refers to deep-learning models that can generate high-quality text, images, and other content based on the data they were trained on. Examples include GPT-4 and DALL-E, which can generate human-like text and images, respectively. While these AI models are known for their creative potential and efficiency, they also pose significant security risks.

### GenAI Security: An Overview

GenAI Security involves all measures, technologies, policies, and controls designed to protect an organization from the risks associated with the use of Generative AI. Some of the key risks include:

1. **Sensitive Data Disclosure:** When employees input sensitive organizational data into GenAI tools, there's a significant risk that this data could be used for future training of the AI models, potentially leading to unintentional disclosure of sensitive information on external endpoints.

2. **Prompt Injection:** Attackers can manipulate an AI model through specially crafted inputs to make it behave in unintended ways. Known as "jailbreaking," this can lead to exposure of sensitive data, denial of service attacks, remote code execution (RCE), or SQL injections, with serious legal and financial consequences. Prompt Injections are further classified into _direct_ and _indirect_ prompt injections, which we will discuss in upcoming blogs in detail.

3. **Toxic or Harmful Content:** Users may be exposed to inappropriate, toxic, or off-brand content generated by the AI, potentially causing reputational or legal damage to the organization.

### Case Study: The Air Canada Incident

A notable example of the risks associated with Generative AI is the incident involving Air Canada. The company faced backlash when an AI model offered a non-existent discount to a customer. This incident highlighted the potential for misinformation and the necessity of robust GenAI Security measures to prevent such occurrences. Reader can read more about this [here](https://www.bbc.com/travel/article/20240222-air-canada-chatbot-misinformation-what-travellers-should-know).

### Drilling Down on the Probability of GenAI Risks

The likelihood of these risks materializing is significant. In terms of usage, GenAI tools are already widespread in many organizations. With this growing use of GenAI in enterprises, there is a serious need to mitigate any security risks that might be associated with it.

### Protecting Your Organization from GenAI Risks

To safeguard your organization from GenAI risks, it is crucial to:

1. Familiarize yourself with the potential risks and stay informed about the latest developments in GenAI security.
   
2. Develop and enforce measures to mitigate any potential risk associated with the use of GenAI tools within your organization.

3. Review resources such as the OWASP Top 10 for LLM Applications to guide your security strategy.


In upcoming blogs, we will discuss how we at Maxim are helping enterprises secure themselves against these risks. Stay tuned!